docs/browser-config.md, before:

Browser Config
=============

**Please note that `browser-config.json` may be deprecated after Neovim 0.2 because of the change of Neovim frontend architecture**

NyaoVim is rendered in browser window using [Electron](https://github.com/atom/electron) framework.  You can configure editor options with properties of `<neovim-editor>` component, but cannot configure the browser window options.  This is because the browser window options must be specified before window opened.

You can configure browser window options using `browser-config.json` in `~/.config/nyaovim/`.  It does not exist by default and you need to create it at first.

```sh
$ echo "{\n  \"window_options\": {}\n}" > ~/.config/nyaovim/browser-config.json
```

`browser-config.json` contains one JSON object.  The object optionally contains below key/value entries.

- **window_options** : Its value is [options of `BrowserWindow` class of Electron](https://github.com/atom/electron/blob/master/docs/api/browser-window.md#new-browserwindowoptions).  You can configure many options here; `width`, `height`, `fullscreen`, `webPreferences`, and so on.
- **remember_window_state** : Boolean value.  Preserve the window state (position, size, fullscreen?, maximized?) at closing window and restore it at next start-up.  The state is written to `~/.config/nyaovim/window-state.json`.
- **single_instance** : Boolean value.  If true, NyaoVim becomes 'Single Instance Application'.  Only one NyaoVim instance can exist in desktop.  If `nyaovim` command is secondly executed, it focuses on NyaoVim window which already exists, opens files specified as arguments in it, and simply quits.

Below is an example:

```json
{
  "window_options": {
    "width": 1200,
    "height": 960,
    "fullscreen": true,
    "alwaysOnTop": true,
    "webPreferences": {
      "webgl": false,
      "plugins": true
    }
  },
  "remember_window_state": true,
  "single_instance": true
}
```

Commit message:

add document for 'enable_canvas_workaround' and bump up version to 0.0.18

docs/browser-config.md, after:

Browser Config
=============

**Please note that `browser-config.json` may be deprecated after Neovim 0.2 because of the change of Neovim frontend architecture**

NyaoVim is rendered in browser window using [Electron](https://github.com/atom/electron) framework.  You can configure editor options with properties of `<neovim-editor>` component, but cannot configure the browser window options.  This is because the browser window options must be specified before window opened.

You can configure browser window options using `browser-config.json` in `~/.config/nyaovim/`.  It does not exist by default and you need to create it at first.

```sh
$ echo "{\n  \"window_options\": {}\n}" > ~/.config/nyaovim/browser-config.json
```

`browser-config.json` contains one JSON object.  The object optionally contains below key/value entries.

- **window_options** : Its value is [options of `BrowserWindow` class of Electron](https://github.com/atom/electron/blob/master/docs/api/browser-window.md#new-browserwindowoptions).  You can configure many options here; `width`, `height`, `fullscreen`, `webPreferences`, and so on.
- **remember_window_state** : Boolean value.  Preserve the window state (position, size, fullscreen?, maximized?) at closing window and restore it at next start-up.  The state is written to `~/.config/nyaovim/window-state.json`.
- **single_instance** : Boolean value.  If true, NyaoVim becomes 'Single Instance Application'.  Only one NyaoVim instance can exist in desktop.  If `nyaovim` command is secondly executed, it focuses on NyaoVim window which already exists, opens files specified as arguments in it, and simply quits.
- **enable_canvas_workaround** : Boolean value.  If you see that all the characters in window are renderered as square, please set this value to `true`.  Original issue is [here](https://github.com/rhysd/NyaoVim/issues/3).

Below is an example:

```json
{
  "window_options": {
    "width": 1200,
    "height": 960,
    "fullscreen": true,
    "alwaysOnTop": true,
    "webPreferences": {
      "webgl": false,
      "plugins": true
    }
  },
  "remember_window_state": true,
  "single_instance": true
}
```
