docs/runtime-api.md, before:

NyaoVim Runtime API
===================

As described in [README](../README.md), many APIs are available in NyaoVim; [<neovim-component> APIs](https://github.com/rhysd/neovim-component), [Node.js APIs](https://nodejs.org/en/docs/), [Electron APIs](https://github.com/atom/electron/tree/master/docs/api), [Neovim msgpack-rpc APIs](https://neovim.io/doc/user/msgpack_rpc.html)), so many [npm packages](https://www.npmjs.com/).
In addition to them, NyaoVim offers some extra APIs.

- API in Vim script
- Subscriable events

## API in Vim script

Vim script interface is defined [in this directory](../runtime).  The directory is added to `runtimepath` at Neovim starting.  All are defined in `nyaovim#` namespace.

### `nyaovim#load_nyaovim_plugin(runtimepath)`

Load UI plugin from the `runtimepath` directory.  It searches `nyaovim-plugin` directory and HTML files in the directory.  Then load HTML files with `<link rel="import">`.

### `nyaovim#load_nyaovim_plugin_direct(html_path)`

Directly load HTML from `html_path` HTML file with `<link rel="import">`.

### `nyaovim#require_javascript_file(script_path)`

Load `script_path` JavaScript file with Node.js's `require()` function.

### `nyaovim#call_javascript_function(func_name, args)`

Call JavaScript `func_name` global function with `args`.  `args` values in Vim script will be converted to JavaScript values.

### `nyaovim#open_devtools(mode)`

[Open DevTools](https://github.com/electron/electron/blob/master/docs/api/web-contents.md#contentsopendevtoolsoptions) for NyaoVim.  `mode` determines how to open DevTools window and should be one of `'right'`, `'bottom'`, `'undocked'` or `'detach'`.  If omitted, `'detach'` will be set.

## Subscriable events

With Neovim msgpack API, you can receive rpc nortifications.

```javascript
const neovim_element = document.getElementById('neovim');
const client = neovim_element.editor.getClient();
client.on('notification', (func_name, args) => {
    switch (func_name) {
        case 'nyaovim:edit-start':
            // Do something
            break;
        default:
            break;
    }
});
```

NyaoVim defines some notifications to use internally and UI plugins can also use them.

### `nyaovim:edit-start`

This notification is sent when Neovim starts to edit some buffer.  It passes the file path to 1st argument.

Commit message:

add nyaovim#execute_javascript() runtime
Related: #86

docs/runtime-api.md, after:

NyaoVim Runtime API
===================

As described in [README](../README.md), many APIs are available in NyaoVim; [<neovim-component> APIs](https://github.com/rhysd/neovim-component), [Node.js APIs](https://nodejs.org/en/docs/), [Electron APIs](https://github.com/atom/electron/tree/master/docs/api), [Neovim msgpack-rpc APIs](https://neovim.io/doc/user/msgpack_rpc.html)), so many [npm packages](https://www.npmjs.com/).
In addition to them, NyaoVim offers some extra APIs.

- API in Vim script
- Subscriable events

## API in Vim script

Vim script interface is defined [in this directory](../runtime).  The directory is added to `runtimepath` at Neovim starting.  All are defined in `nyaovim#` namespace.

### `nyaovim#load_nyaovim_plugin(runtimepath)`

Load UI plugin from the `runtimepath` directory.  It searches `nyaovim-plugin` directory and HTML files in the directory.  Then load HTML files with `<link rel="import">`.

### `nyaovim#load_nyaovim_plugin_direct(html_path)`

Directly load HTML from `html_path` HTML file with `<link rel="import">`.

### `nyaovim#require_javascript_file(script_path)`

Load `script_path` JavaScript file with Node.js's `require()` function.

### `nyaovim#call_javascript_function(func_name, args)`

Call JavaScript `func_name` global function with `args`.  `args` values in Vim script will be converted to JavaScript values.

### `nyaovim#open_devtools(mode)`

[Open DevTools](https://github.com/electron/electron/blob/master/docs/api/web-contents.md#contentsopendevtoolsoptions) for NyaoVim.  `mode` determines how to open DevTools window and should be one of `'right'`, `'bottom'`, `'undocked'` or `'detach'`.  If omitted, `'detach'` will be set.

### `nyaovim#execute_javascript(code)`

Execute JavaScript code from Vim script with `code` string.  With this function, you can run various APIs directly from Vim script.  Below is a code to toggle window fullscreen.

```vim
call nyaovim#execute_javascript('(function(){
          \   const win = require("electron").remote.getCurrentWindow();
          \   win.setFullScreen(!win.isFullScreen());
          \ })()')
```

TODO: This function currently doesn't return the result of evaluating JavaScript.

## Subscriable events

With Neovim msgpack API, you can receive rpc nortifications.

```javascript
const neovim_element = document.getElementById('neovim');
const client = neovim_element.editor.getClient();
client.on('notification', (func_name, args) => {
    switch (func_name) {
        case 'nyaovim:edit-start':
            // Do something
            break;
        default:
            break;
    }
});
```

NyaoVim defines some notifications to use internally and UI plugins can also use them.

### `nyaovim:edit-start`

This notification is sent when Neovim starts to edit some buffer.  It passes the file path to 1st argument.
